meta-transactions.md, before:

# Meta Transactions and Executable Signed Txns

Conceived by [Dr. Christian Lundkvist](https://twitter.com/ChrisLundkvist), meta txns enable users to interact with Ethereum without holding any ether.

## uPort
- [Making uPort Smart Contracts Smarter, Part 3: Fixing UX with Meta Txns](https://medium.com/uport/making-uport-smart-contracts-smarter-part-3-fixing-user-experience-with-meta-transactions-105209ed43e0) - Medium article
- [Meta Transaction Relaying Server](https://developer.uport.me/rest-apis/relay-server/)

Jim can use his private key to sign some data and then send this signed data to a relayer (which he has specifically given permission to forward his data). This relayer can then pay the gas for this transaction, and send the data through Jim’s proxy contract.

## Avsa / Executable Signed Transactions
- [The magic of executable signed messages to login and do actions](https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-1077-and-erc-1078-the-magic-of-executable-signed-messages-to-login-and-do-actions/351) - post to the Magicians' Forum by [alexvandesande](https://github.com/alexvandesande)
- [ERC-1077](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/1077) - Executable Signed Messages refunded by the contract
- [ERC-1078](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/1078) - Log in / signup using ENS subdomains

Allowing users to sign messages to show intent of execution, but allowing a third party relayer to execute them is an emerging pattern being used in many projects. 

## Gnosis Safe
- [Website](https://safe.gnosis.io/)
- [Gnosis Safe contracts](https://github.com/gnosis/safe-contracts)

Aims to provide all users with a convenient, yet secure way to manage their funds and interact with decentralized applications on Ethereum.

## Austin Griffith / metatx.io
- [Bouncer Proxy](https://github.com/austintgriffith/bouncer-proxy)
- [Meta transactions on Ethereum via Identity Proxy Contract](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6r3SqCcEVU4&feature=youtu.be) - youtube video

Sandbox for experimenting with etherless meta transactions. The heart of the trick is to sign and recover transactions using Ethereum key pairs both on and off chain.

Commit message:

Added unilogin and a video to the meta txns page.

meta-transactions.md, after:

# Meta Transactions and Executable Signed Txns

Conceived by [Dr. Christian Lundkvist](https://twitter.com/ChrisLundkvist), meta txns enable users to interact with Ethereum without holding any ether.

## uPort
- [Making uPort Smart Contracts Smarter, Part 3: Fixing UX with Meta Txns](https://medium.com/uport/making-uport-smart-contracts-smarter-part-3-fixing-user-experience-with-meta-transactions-105209ed43e0) - Medium article
- [Meta Transaction Relaying Server](https://developer.uport.me/rest-apis/relay-server/)

Jim can use his private key to sign some data and then send this signed data to a relayer (which he has specifically given permission to forward his data). This relayer can then pay the gas for this transaction, and send the data through Jim’s proxy contract.

## Avsa / Executable Signed Transactions
- [The magic of executable signed messages to login and do actions](https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-1077-and-erc-1078-the-magic-of-executable-signed-messages-to-login-and-do-actions/351) - post to the Magicians' Forum by [alexvandesande](https://github.com/alexvandesande)
- [ERC-1077](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/1077) - Executable Signed Messages refunded by the contract
- [ERC-1078](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/pull/1078) - Log in / signup using ENS subdomains
- [Universal Logins for Ethereum - UX Unconf Toronto 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qF2lhJzngto&feature=youtu.be) - youtube video

Allowing users to sign messages to show intent of execution, but allowing a third party relayer to execute them is an emerging pattern being used in many projects. 

## Gnosis Safe
- [Website](https://safe.gnosis.io/)
- [Gnosis Safe contracts](https://github.com/gnosis/safe-contracts)

Aims to provide all users with a convenient, yet secure way to manage their funds and interact with decentralized applications on Ethereum.

## Austin Griffith / metatx.io
- [Bouncer Proxy](https://github.com/austintgriffith/bouncer-proxy) - GitHub Project
- [Meta transactions on Ethereum via Identity Proxy Contract](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6r3SqCcEVU4&feature=youtu.be) - youtube video

Sandbox for experimenting with etherless meta transactions. The heart of the trick is to sign and recover transactions using Ethereum key pairs both on and off chain.

## HatchCrypto unilogin
- [unilogin](https://github.com/HatchCrypto/unilogin) - GitHub project

This is a React - Web3 - Solidity Proof of Concept signup / login design pattern with a minimal Ethereum native scheme that doesn't require passwords, backing up private keys nor typing seed phrases. It also allows for a user to sign messages to show intent of execution along similar guidelines.
