user-experience.md, before:

# User Experience Resources

[The Challenge of UX in Ethereum](https://medium.com/ecf-review/challenge-of-ux-in-ethereum-122e1a33688d) by Anna Rose

Qualitative findings from interviews after EDCON 2018. 

Users' pain points: 
1. Getting Started - unfamiliar properties of the tech, getting the required ether for transactions
2. Gas
3. Private Key Management & Recovery
4. Standardisation of UX
5. Blockchain Vocabulary / Terminology
6. Not Communicating Clearly What is Happening
7. The Lack of UX Designers

[Web3 Design Principles](https://medium.com/@lyricalpolymath/web3-design-principles-f21db2f240c1) by beltran

1. (Reading Data) Transparency of Data Provenance  
2. (Writing Data) Transparency of Transactions  
3. (Pushed Data) Transparency of Smart Contract Events  
4. (History) Transparency and Accessibility of user’s interaction History  
5. (Code & Environment) Transparency of Code  
6. Time/Wait Management  
7. Human Readable Hashes formats  
8. Permanent Newbie Mode  
9. Gas Price and Transaction Reversals  
10. Sense of community  

[Designing for Blockchain: Three Ways To Get Started](https://www.ideo.com/blog/designing-for-blockchain-three-ways-to-get-started)- by Tara Tan of IDEO Labs

1. Designing for ownership
2. Designing transparency in network transactions
3. Designing for readability

[Micropayments and Mental Transaction Costs](https://nakamotoinstitute.org/static/docs/micropayments-and-mental-transaction-costs.pdf) by Nick Szabo

We present intuitive arguments for why micropayments have not succeeded
on the Internet. The "hassle factor" for customers associated with such transactions
is characterized. A framework of mental transaction costs and price
granularity is then presented, and arguments about micropayments recast in its
light. Finally, we make some suggestions for reducing the mental transaction
costs of Internet commerce.

Commit message:

Updated user-experience with common problems list.

user-experience.md, after:

# User Experience Resources

[Most common UX problems in 2018](http://discuss.conflux.network/t/list-most-common-ux-problems-2018-with-links-to-other-conflux-discussions/97)

- Key management - recovery
- Key management - logins into wallets
- crypto on-ramps: Fiat>Crypto & crypto only on-ramps
- TX - understanding TX (content and consecuences)
- TX - understanding gas
- TX - pending states during mining 
- understanding - privacy 
- understanding - blockchain values 
  - (mental shift: teaching people that this is a trustworthy & unstoppable computer. It is also slow and expensive)
- understanding - distinction between coins and tokens 
- understanding - that coinbase isn't a wallet that can interact with dapps.
- Trusting you don't make mistakes in writing addresses 
- understanding - new mental models and mechanisms
- lack of dev tools for consistent UX across dapps
- understanding - the blockchain lingo

[The Challenge of UX in Ethereum](https://medium.com/ecf-review/challenge-of-ux-in-ethereum-122e1a33688d) by Anna Rose

Qualitative findings from interviews after EDCON 2018. 

Users' pain points: 
1. Getting Started - unfamiliar properties of the tech, getting the required ether for transactions
2. Gas
3. Private Key Management & Recovery
4. Standardisation of UX
5. Blockchain Vocabulary / Terminology
6. Not Communicating Clearly What is Happening
7. The Lack of UX Designers

[Web3 Design Principles](https://medium.com/@lyricalpolymath/web3-design-principles-f21db2f240c1) by beltran

1. (Reading Data) Transparency of Data Provenance  
2. (Writing Data) Transparency of Transactions  
3. (Pushed Data) Transparency of Smart Contract Events  
4. (History) Transparency and Accessibility of user’s interaction History  
5. (Code & Environment) Transparency of Code  
6. Time/Wait Management  
7. Human Readable Hashes formats  
8. Permanent Newbie Mode  
9. Gas Price and Transaction Reversals  
10. Sense of community  

[Designing for Blockchain: Three Ways To Get Started](https://www.ideo.com/blog/designing-for-blockchain-three-ways-to-get-started)- by Tara Tan of IDEO Labs

1. Designing for ownership
2. Designing transparency in network transactions
3. Designing for readability

[Micropayments and Mental Transaction Costs](https://nakamotoinstitute.org/static/docs/micropayments-and-mental-transaction-costs.pdf) by Nick Szabo

We present intuitive arguments for why micropayments have not succeeded
on the Internet. The "hassle factor" for customers associated with such transactions
is characterized. A framework of mental transaction costs and price
granularity is then presented, and arguments about micropayments recast in its
light. Finally, we make some suggestions for reducing the mental transaction
costs of Internet commerce.
